Ok, I am sorry to do this in a long impersonal form letter but I need to make this easier to do.

The details that I have given about Tommie taking a fall are the essential facts. The stuff that I need to add to that are that she actually did fracture her skull and the gash in her head was closed with eight staples.

Those facts are the "minor" problems in this case.

Her brain was bruised in the fall and she has two blood clots. One in the front on one side and one in the back on the other. I can't remember if it was front left and back right or vice versa. I am processing a lot right now. One of the clots is small (I think Tamra said the Docs said "tiny") and the other one is a little larger. Luckily, due to her advanced age her brain has begun to shrink which allows some space for the clots. This is the good news at this point and might be why she is still mostly alert and lucid. It will be different if the clots grow.

So they are taking her off of a bunch of her prescription meds, like blood thinners, which she has been living on for many many years now. So there is a trade off on how much and what to give her and the risk of clots etc etc. and the risk of her other health issues rising up.

The doctors want to keep her in the hospital and treat her with meds for now. Surgery in her case right now would be a high risk procedure. They are unwilling to drain off the clots at this time due to her fragile state. The doctors are saying that she will be in the hospital for a month to six weeks at least. If the clots become removable they may try to drain them then. This procedure will just require a couple of holes to allow the needles to go in. All the technical terms elude me at the moment.

Tamra and Tommie had a heart to heart and Tommie wants to fight until Tamra thinks that it is not a good idea anymore. Tamra is her Medical POA. Keri showed up in Lubbock while I was on the phone with her a few minutes ago. Traci will be flying in in about an hour from Dallas. Not sure where Jimmy and Jaymie are. Jimmy was in Bryan earlier today so I doubt he is back yet.

Tommie is a strong ol' gal but she is 92 and the years are beginning to tell on her. I would really like to say that she will make and I believe she probably can with the information that I have at present but she is getting tired.

We have been thinking about a situation like this for years and prepping ourselves for it. We are sort of prepared but when something like this happens it still shocks us and we realize that we are not nearly as prepared as we thought.

I will be going up to Lubbock tomorrow sometime. I am not sure what I can do besides bring Tamra some clothes that she needs and maybe picking up lunch for the family or something.

That is the update as of 22:47 on Friday 19 April. 

---

Well I don't know what to say about Tommie. On Wednesday she was moved to a rehab hospital to prepare her to return home. Since then the aphasia is back, especially when she is tired. The depression is still going strong. Of more pressing concern is the edema caused by her congestive heart failure combied with her laying in bed all the time. The edema is so bad that her skin is weeping. Some drama ensued when a nurse came into the room with a syringe to drain her. More drama came along when they wanted to give her an high-powered diuretic called Lasix. The problem with that being that it would deplete her potassium to dangerous levels and she can't take the potassium pill. At the time she was not on an IV due to some other issues.

Tamra came home Wednesday and Thursday for a respite and all the above drama was going on. Tamra returned last night and she found Tommie with an IV. The IV had the Lasix (the diuretic), Rocephin (a high-powered antibiotic), and some other stuff that I can't remember right now.

From the information that I am getting, it appears that Tommie has ups and downs. She goes to the therapy. She managed to walk twelve steps yesterday. \o/ But she tires easily and is in considerable pain. 

In case this leaks out beyond those that I intend it to please note: the family knows that you love Tommie and would like to see her but the family requests that you please call first before visiting. The visits are getting a little out of hand. There have been way too many people in the room at one time and she needs her rest and treatment. Please call before coming by and please realize that you may be turned away at the door. Her kids are doing their best to keep folks informed and relaying well wishes to Tommie. 

This is even true for us in-laws - I asked if I needed to go up to Lubbock today and I got a "Well, um, you can come up and take me to lunch but... um." It's ok Angel. I am not hospital material anyway. I can wait.

The visitor restriction is especially true tomorrow, Sunday 28 April. Tommie starts her therapy sessions at 7AM tomorrow morning and they don't end until noonish. She will be zonked for the rest of the day. 

So here we are a week in. She is light years better than she was last Saturday but it feels like there are light years to go. Her kids are tired they need a break. Mike flew in yesterday and I am sure he is taking Traci out of the situation for a bit this weekend. Tamra came home Wed night and Thurs night. Not sure what all is going on with Keri aside from the fact that I guess Kaeli is driving up there everyday I guess to take care of Keri. I think Jim has an office in Lubbock so I am pretty sure he is still working just keeping to a loosey-goosey schedule.

This update was written around 8AM on 27 April.